docs/features/kubernetes/configuration.md, before:

---
id: configuration
title: Configuring Kubernetes integration
sidebar_label: Configuration
# prettier-ignore
description: Configuring the Kubernetes integration for Backstage expose your entity's objects
---

Configuring the Backstage Kubernetes integration involves two steps:

1. Enabling the backend to collect objects from your Kubernetes cluster(s).
2. Surfacing your Kubernetes objects in catalog entities

## Configuring Kubernetes Clusters

The following is a full example entry in `app-config.yaml`:

```yaml
kubernetes:
  serviceLocatorMethod:
    type: 'multiTenant'
  clusterLocatorMethods:
    - type: 'config'
      clusters:
        - url: http://127.0.0.1:9999
          name: minikube
          authProvider: 'serviceAccount'
          skipTLSVerify: false
          serviceAccountToken: ${K8S_MINIKUBE_TOKEN}
        - url: http://127.0.0.2:9999
          name: aws-cluster-1
          authProvider: 'aws'
    - type: 'gke'
      projectId: 'gke-clusters'
      region: 'europe-west1'
      skipTLSVerify: true
```

### `serviceLocatorMethod`

This configures how to determine which clusters a component is running in.

Currently, the only valid value is:

- `multiTenant` - This configuration assumes that all components run on all the
  provided clusters.

### `clusterLocatorMethods`

This is an array used to determine where to retrieve cluster configuration from.

Valid cluster locator methods are:

#### `config`

This cluster locator method will read cluster information from your app-config
(see below).

##### `clusters`

Used by the `config` cluster locator method to construct Kubernetes clients.

##### `clusters.\*.url`

The base URL to the Kubernetes control plane. Can be found by using the
"Kubernetes master" result from running the `kubectl cluster-info` command.

##### `clusters.\*.name`

A name to represent this cluster, this must be unique within the `clusters`
array. Users will see this value in the Software Catalog Kubernetes plugin.

##### `clusters.\*.authProvider`

This determines how the Kubernetes client authenticates with the Kubernetes
cluster. Valid values are:

| Value            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceAccount` | This will use a Kubernetes [service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) to access the Kubernetes API. When this is used the `serviceAccountToken` field should also be set. |
| `google`         | This will use a user's Google auth token from the [Google auth plugin](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/) to access the Kubernetes API.                                                                                             |
| `aws`            | This will use AWS credentials to access resources in EKS clusters                                                                                                                                                                 |

##### `clusters.\*.skipTLSVerify`

This determines whether or not the Kubernetes client verifies the TLS
certificate presented by the API server. Defaults to `false`.

##### `clusters.\*.serviceAccountToken` (optional)

The service account token to be used when using the `serviceAccount` auth
provider. You could get the service account token with:

```sh
kubectl -n <NAMESPACE> get secret $(kubectl -n <NAMESPACE> get sa <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME> -o=json \
| jq -r '.secrets[0].name') -o=json \
| jq -r '.data["token"]' \
| base64 --decode
```

#### `gke`

This cluster locator is designed to work with Kubernetes clusters running in
[GKE][1]. It will configure the Kubernetes backend plugin to make requests to
clusters running within a Google Cloud project.

This cluster locator method will use the `google` authentication mechanism.

The Google Cloud service account to use can be configured through the
`GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable. Consult the [Google Cloud
docs][2] for more information.

For example:

```yaml
- type: 'gke'
  projectId: 'gke-clusters'
  region: 'europe-west1'
```

Will configure the Kubernetes plugin to connect to all GKE clusters in the
project `gke-clusters` in the region `europe-west1`.

##### `projectId`

The Google Cloud project to look for Kubernetes clusters in.

##### `region` (optional)

The Google Cloud region to look for Kubernetes clusters in. Defaults to all
regions.

##### `skipTLSVerify`

This determines whether or not the Kubernetes client verifies the TLS
certificate presented by the API server. Defaults to `false`.

### `customResources` (optional)

Configures which [custom resources][3] to look for when returning an entity's
Kubernetes resources.

Defaults to empty array. Example:

```yaml
---
kubernetes:
  customResources:
    - group: 'argoproj.io'
      apiVersion: 'v1alpha1'
      plural: 'rollouts'
```

#### `customResources.\*.group`

The custom resource's group.

#### `customResources.\*.apiVersion`

The custom resource's apiVersion.

#### `customResources.\*.plural`

The plural representing the custom resource.

### Role Based Access Control

The current RBAC permissions required are read-only cluster wide, for the
following objects:

- pods
- services
- configmaps
- deployments
- replicasets
- horizontalpodautoscalers
- ingresses

## Surfacing your Kubernetes components as part of an entity

There are two ways to surface your Kubernetes components as part of an entity.
The label selector takes precedence over the annotation/service id.

### Common `backstage.io/kubernetes-id` label

#### Adding the entity annotation

In order for Backstage to detect that an entity has Kubernetes components, the
following annotation should be added to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml`:

```yaml
annotations:
  'backstage.io/kubernetes-id': dice-roller
```

#### Labeling Kubernetes components

In order for Kubernetes components to show up in the software catalog as a part
of an entity, Kubernetes components themselves can have the following label:

```yaml
'backstage.io/kubernetes-id': <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>
```

### Label selector query annotation

You can write your own custom label selector query that Backstage will use to
lookup the objects (similar to `kubectl --selector="your query here"`). Review
the
[labels and selectors Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/)
for more info.

```yaml
'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app=my-app,component=front-end'
```

[1]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[2]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production#linux-or-macos
[3]:
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/

Commit message:

adds assumeRole config option for aws type k8
This allows connecting to clusters in multiple aws accounts. e.g. you might have a
development aws account and a production aws account. You might have an EKS cluster
in each of these accounts. In this case, you can use assumeRole to access the
clusters in the two accounts. Here is how it works.

```yaml
kubernetes:
  serviceLocatorMethod:
    type: 'multiTenant'
  clusterLocatorMethods:
    - type: 'config'
      clusters:
        - url: https://<id>.gr7.eu-west-1.eks.amazonaws.com
          name: dev
          authProvider: 'aws'
          assumeRole: 'arn:aws:iam::11111111111:role/KubeReader'
          skipTLSVerify: true
        - url: https://<id>.gr7.eu-west-1.eks.amazonaws.com
          name: prod
          authProvider: 'aws'
          assumeRole: 'arn:aws:iam::2222222222:role/KubeReader'
          skipTLSVerify: true
```

You would then configure the KubeReader roles to allow the caller identity to assume the role using trusted identities.

Signed-off-by: Brian Fletcher <brian@roadie.io>

docs/features/kubernetes/configuration.md, after:

---
id: configuration
title: Configuring Kubernetes integration
sidebar_label: Configuration
# prettier-ignore
description: Configuring the Kubernetes integration for Backstage expose your entity's objects
---

Configuring the Backstage Kubernetes integration involves two steps:

1. Enabling the backend to collect objects from your Kubernetes cluster(s).
2. Surfacing your Kubernetes objects in catalog entities

## Configuring Kubernetes Clusters

The following is a full example entry in `app-config.yaml`:

```yaml
kubernetes:
  serviceLocatorMethod:
    type: 'multiTenant'
  clusterLocatorMethods:
    - type: 'config'
      clusters:
        - url: http://127.0.0.1:9999
          name: minikube
          authProvider: 'serviceAccount'
          skipTLSVerify: false
          serviceAccountToken: ${K8S_MINIKUBE_TOKEN}
        - url: http://127.0.0.2:9999
          name: aws-cluster-1
          authProvider: 'aws'
    - type: 'gke'
      projectId: 'gke-clusters'
      region: 'europe-west1'
      skipTLSVerify: true
```

### `serviceLocatorMethod`

This configures how to determine which clusters a component is running in.

Currently, the only valid value is:

- `multiTenant` - This configuration assumes that all components run on all the
  provided clusters.

### `clusterLocatorMethods`

This is an array used to determine where to retrieve cluster configuration from.

Valid cluster locator methods are:

#### `config`

This cluster locator method will read cluster information from your app-config
(see below).

##### `clusters`

Used by the `config` cluster locator method to construct Kubernetes clients.

##### `clusters.\*.url`

The base URL to the Kubernetes control plane. Can be found by using the
"Kubernetes master" result from running the `kubectl cluster-info` command.

##### `clusters.\*.name`

A name to represent this cluster, this must be unique within the `clusters`
array. Users will see this value in the Software Catalog Kubernetes plugin.

##### `clusters.\*.authProvider`

This determines how the Kubernetes client authenticates with the Kubernetes
cluster. Valid values are:

| Value            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `serviceAccount` | This will use a Kubernetes [service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) to access the Kubernetes API. When this is used the `serviceAccountToken` field should also be set. |
| `google`         | This will use a user's Google auth token from the [Google auth plugin](https://backstage.io/docs/auth/) to access the Kubernetes API.                                                                                             |
| `aws`            | This will use AWS credentials to access resources in EKS clusters                                                                                                                                                                 |

##### `clusters.\*.skipTLSVerify`

This determines whether or not the Kubernetes client verifies the TLS
certificate presented by the API server. Defaults to `false`.

##### `clusters.\*.serviceAccountToken` (optional)

The service account token to be used when using the `serviceAccount` auth
provider. You could get the service account token with:

```sh
kubectl -n <NAMESPACE> get secret $(kubectl -n <NAMESPACE> get sa <SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME> -o=json \
| jq -r '.secrets[0].name') -o=json \
| jq -r '.data["token"]' \
| base64 --decode
```

##### `clusters.\*.assumeRole` (optional)

A role can be used for accessing the kubernetes API using the `assumeRole`
option. This enables cross account access.

#### `gke`

This cluster locator is designed to work with Kubernetes clusters running in
[GKE][1]. It will configure the Kubernetes backend plugin to make requests to
clusters running within a Google Cloud project.

This cluster locator method will use the `google` authentication mechanism.

The Google Cloud service account to use can be configured through the
`GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable. Consult the [Google Cloud
docs][2] for more information.

For example:

```yaml
- type: 'gke'
  projectId: 'gke-clusters'
  region: 'europe-west1'
```

Will configure the Kubernetes plugin to connect to all GKE clusters in the
project `gke-clusters` in the region `europe-west1`.

##### `projectId`

The Google Cloud project to look for Kubernetes clusters in.

##### `region` (optional)

The Google Cloud region to look for Kubernetes clusters in. Defaults to all
regions.

##### `skipTLSVerify`

This determines whether or not the Kubernetes client verifies the TLS
certificate presented by the API server. Defaults to `false`.

### `customResources` (optional)

Configures which [custom resources][3] to look for when returning an entity's
Kubernetes resources.

Defaults to empty array. Example:

```yaml
---
kubernetes:
  customResources:
    - group: 'argoproj.io'
      apiVersion: 'v1alpha1'
      plural: 'rollouts'
```

#### `customResources.\*.group`

The custom resource's group.

#### `customResources.\*.apiVersion`

The custom resource's apiVersion.

#### `customResources.\*.plural`

The plural representing the custom resource.

### Role Based Access Control

The current RBAC permissions required are read-only cluster wide, for the
following objects:

- pods
- services
- configmaps
- deployments
- replicasets
- horizontalpodautoscalers
- ingresses

## Surfacing your Kubernetes components as part of an entity

There are two ways to surface your Kubernetes components as part of an entity.
The label selector takes precedence over the annotation/service id.

### Common `backstage.io/kubernetes-id` label

#### Adding the entity annotation

In order for Backstage to detect that an entity has Kubernetes components, the
following annotation should be added to the entity's `catalog-info.yaml`:

```yaml
annotations:
  'backstage.io/kubernetes-id': dice-roller
```

#### Labeling Kubernetes components

In order for Kubernetes components to show up in the software catalog as a part
of an entity, Kubernetes components themselves can have the following label:

```yaml
'backstage.io/kubernetes-id': <BACKSTAGE_ENTITY_NAME>
```

### Label selector query annotation

You can write your own custom label selector query that Backstage will use to
lookup the objects (similar to `kubectl --selector="your query here"`). Review
the
[labels and selectors Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/)
for more info.

```yaml
'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app=my-app,component=front-end'
```

[1]: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine
[2]: https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production#linux-or-macos
[3]:
  https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/
